Location: Tigris star system, somewhere between Gassus and Tergess
Date: Few months after the dispatch of the third wave of autonomous exploration vessels

Captain's log :

A few days ago, a mothership escorted by many automated ships got into our system. A picket was sent to escort that big fleet and make sure no one pushed their curiosity too far, but the vessels immediatly had a hostile reaction when the picket approached at what we thought was a safe distance. Alas, they didn't have much time to react and most of the ships got destroyed when they tried to escape.

Fortunately, the fleet's captain was still alive to report back what happened.
"We just casually approached at a safe distance, and those things went nuts I swear! Then, boom! They open fire on us! Seriously, only a few of our ships survived this slaughter! I mean, we were aware that they could react that way if we are REALLY close to them, but please, my fleet was much more far away than needed to avoid this incident. Now we have automated beasts attacking any nearby fleet!
Oh! I almost forgot! Even if it has been a few months that the third wave got dispatched, let me tell you that what we could see of the mothership was worrying, really. It's far from being in pristine condition, not to mention that it is more equiped for battling than just exploring. If I were to guess, I would bet one million credits that someone somehow succeeded to reprogram the mothership, and then sent it over Tigris to attack us, so to speak.
Anyways, we really need to react quickly. We HAVE to protect Tigris!"

After that report, the Grand Tiger thought of a fairly simple strategy : Send many fleets to bait as much drones as possible so that a last fleet can try to approach the mothership and neutralize it. And that last fleet is mine. They also mentionned something about reusing the drones. I'm pretty sure they've got a good idea.

We're about to engage our target. It seems like the plan is working though, the mothership is much less escorted than before. And wow, the captain I quoted was right... This thing is indeed more suited for a military use than an exploration one, and it looks fairly bulky even if it's not in pristine condition. Let's hope this ends well.

This was Melvin Grear. Out.